as Joseph Campbell said find a place
inside where there's joy and the joy
will burn out the pain now I get it
life inevitably comes with some degree
of misery and I get it for many of you
things have happened in your past that
are unspeakable and whether that's
something big or whether it's something
small each one of us has something
inside of us that hurts it's something
that we wish weren't so it's something
that we focus on when we're alone it's
the thing that keeps us up at night it's
the thing that wakes us up in the
morning it's the thing that we
obsessively come back to over and over
and over for whatever reason that we
think means that we're not good enough
but I also know that inside each one of
us is something beautiful that even in
the midst of pain if you allow yourself
to focus on that to feel the joy to not
just think about it but to actually feel
the joy it will begin to crowd out the
pain it will actually take that room and
just like when you're trying to create
something amazing in your life do not
waste time trying to tear down the old
if you're trying to create something
beautiful in your life spend all of your
time trying to build that new thing so
if you want to feel joy
don't try to eradicate the pain instead
focus all of your energy on that joy and
let it become so bright that it
ultimately takes over the pain and as
aristotle said it is during our darkest
moments that we must focus to see light
and that's the thing with pleasure and
pain when you've got that ache inside of
you when you feel that something in your
past is stopping you from moving forward
it is in that moment that you must put
your focus and attention on the things
that are good on the things you've done
that are good on the joys and the beauty
and the things in your life do you're
grateful for all of
if you take your time and you put your
focus on that even when it hurts
especially when it hurts if you're able
to do that if you're able to find a way
to take all of your energy and put it on
that to repeat it to let it become a
mantra to let it be the first thing you
think about when you wake up the last
thing you think about in the night and
the thing that you cling to when you
wake up and cannot fall asleep if you
let it be that thing that you can put
all of your attention on that then you
can actually change your chemistry you
can actually change your own store you
can actually change your life
but you've got to know it's in our
darkest moments that we must focus on
the light Happy New Year everybody I
hope this time of year is as exciting
for you guys as it is for me and I
definitely think about new beginnings
but I don't think about resolutions and
the reason that I don't think about
resolutions and the reason that I hope
you guys don't think about resolutions
either is as Mary Shelley said the
beginning is always today and that's the
important thing whenever you're hearing
this video whether it's at the first of
the year or not whatever moment this is
finding you I want you to take this
moment to realize that you can make
whatever change you want to make in your
life as Napoleon Hill said first comes
thought the beginning as you will
observe is in the imagination and that's
the key to getting started is you have
to understand that you already have
everything that you want but you've got
to think about what it is you're trying
to create in your life first you've got
to define that starting with the goal
and understanding where
is that you want to go and then having
the courage to take that first step
you've got to have that courage you've
got to have that willingness to step
forward into the unknown not knowing
where it's gonna go not knowing what
you're gonna have to do to get there and
not overwhelming yourself by looking at
the entire task but rather taking a
single step and a stevedore Rozsival
said far and away the best lies that
life has to offer is the chance to work
hard at work worth doing this is where
everybody can this is the thing that is
the great destroyer of dreams people
want it to be easy and the only people
that are gonna succeed are the ones that
really understand that the prize that
life has to offer is to really pour
yourself into something that is
worthwhile to gain a set of skills that
are going to serve other people to do
something to have a vision that's bigger
than yourself and to go after it with
everything that you have but ask
yourself when was the last time you
poured yourself into doing something
where you gave yourself over completely
and totally to something because that
that's what success is going to demand
of you if you're really going to tap
into the human ability to adapt to grow
to get better to become capable of the
extraordinary to really do something
that it's going to change people's lives
within yours or somebody else you've got
to fall in love with the process of
busting your ass for something that you
believe in
you can do that if you can identify that
thing that you're willing to give
yourself over to and take that first
step
encourage without knowledge without
knowing exactly where it's going to end
up but believing in yourself having
faith in yourself that you can do it
then you'll be able to accomplish
anything you set your mind to and no
matter what day today is no matter when
this message is reaching you whether
it's the first of the year or it's a
random [__] Tuesday start now
[Music]
everybody I hope you enjoyed that one
I've got some more coming up for you so
keep watching and at the end don't
forget take action everyone takes the
limits of their own vision for the
limits of the world
Arthur Chopin our there is all around
you right now
the reflections of your world belief
they're so ever-present that you don't
even see them all the assumption that
you've made about the world the things
that are possible what you're capable of
who you are the very definition of what
it means to be alive all of it is
completely invisible and you're mistaken
what you have for what could be and once
you break free of that once you
understand that right now you're a
moment in time and that you have latent
potential and that latent potential can
be expressed in the form of skills that
you can get good at things that you can
develop yourself in any direction that
brain plasticity alone is one of the
greatest weapons that you're not using
but you have to move beyond what you can
perceive today you have to begin to look
beyond that and see that which doesn't
yet exist and you have to remember that
many of the things that are holding you
down are rules that you don't even
realize are rules and as General Douglas
MacArthur said you're remembered for the
rules you break and right now you're
following rules that you don't even
realize exists and some of those rules
are simply what is okay to dream but I'm
here to tell you the power is in
recognizing that you can do it the power
is in having the arrogance of belief the
power is an understanding that
yes you are going to be capable of
something simply because you are willing
to believe in yourself and that's the
thing it's a willingness to believe in
yourself no one's gonna give it to you
even the people that love you they're
not gonna give you that they are
incapable of giving it to you people
cannot see past their limitations and
they take them for truth people actually
believe the things that have stopped
them will forever not only stop them but
they will stop other people how can they
hope to give you anything but limitation
so if you know that if you know that
even the people that love you what
they're handling was limitation with the
best of [__] intentions with all the
love in the world how are you gonna
break out of that how are you gonna
break past those rules how are you gonna
fight the anxiety that inevitably comes
your way when you think about going
against the grain but my friends until
you can do that you can never get beyond
the [__] that limits you if people
said gravity is what it is we never
would have reached the skate velocity
and yet as a species we have been able
to hurl a [__] rocket into space get
it outside of gravity take us to other
planets that is real only because
somebody said I refuse to be held down
by the most obvious rule that we have
the one that everybody says is beyond
reproach and that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognizes
Epictetus said if you want to improve be
content to be thought foolish and stupid
can you be content to be thought foolish
and stupid or do you allow yourself to
be caged to be hemmed in by what other
people think and look I get it
I understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited by what they give you permission
to do and I don't know about you but
when I was a kid I said when I'm an
adult
never [__] be told what to do again I
will never be held back by somebody else
I will define myself I will figure out
what I need to do and I will do it and
at the end of the day that is it my
goals drive my behavior I am NOT held
back by what other people think about me
no matter how [__] intoxicating it is
to be loved you have to decide what you
want more do you want to be you or do
you want to be someone else's reflection
of you
[Music]
as Mark Twain said the secret to getting
ahead is getting started that's
something I want all of you guys to
really embody and really think about
really put at the core of your existence
that step number one to accomplishing
whatever it is that you want to do is
actually getting started and I
understand I know the thing that holds
you back I know the thing that is
absolutely paralyzing for people is you
don't think that you have what it takes
to go out and be good and rather than
face that difficult brutal process of
growing and getting better and quite
frankly facing your inadequacies it's
easier just to sit back but as John
Wooden said never let me you cannot do
interfere with what you can there is
something right now that you're capable
of there is an innate skill inside of
you that's your spark it's that starting
point it's that thing that while you may
not be the best in the world at it it's
a flame that you can fan it's something
that you can breathe life into and
really begin to get good but first you
have to understand the very nature of
progress and that's a Stephen Covey said
you're not the product of your
circumstances but rather a product of
your decision
and it's those decisions that are going
to allow you to build that skill set so
don't worry about where you started
don't worry about what you already have
remember it's the decisions that you
make it's going down that road it is the
decision to get started
it's the decision to face a possible
failure
it's the decision to get up once you've
failed and it's the decision of what to
learn when you fail do you learn that
you're not good enough
never should have tried well do you
learn a lesson from the failure and get
up and brush yourself off and remember
that at the end of the day you're going
to go as far as you're willing to fight
for and that's it if you're willing to
fight to go all the way then you will go
that far you will set a new bar you will
define for people what is possible to
become that beacon of hope you become
that thing that other people look to as
the standard at the end of the day it
started with you getting started it
started with you showing up it started
with you pushing and trying
don't worry about what you have and what
you are focus on who you want to become
and the price you're willing to pay
together
[Music]
as Nelson Mandela said education is the
most powerful weapon you can use to
change the world wherever you are right
now listening to this I want you to burn
that into your mind the most powerful
weapon that you're going to have at your
disposal isn't a gun it isn't a sword it
isn't a bomb the most powerful weapon
you will ever have at your disposal if
you really want to make change is
knowledge it doesn't mean going to
school it can be school it can be books
it can be a mentor it can be somebody
else's failure it can be your own
failure but whatever it is to always be
learning to be learning something today
knowing that that's an investment and as
Robert Louis Stevenson said don't judge
each day by the harvest you reap but
rather by the seeds you plant and that's
what knowledge is that's what the
learning process is is you're learning
something today that you may not even
understand how it's going to be valuable
but one day
that piece of knowledge is gonna come to
your aid one day that thing that you
learned is gonna be something that
you're gonna lean on one day that thing
that you've worked your ass off to
understand better than anybody else in
the world it's going to help you change
the world but you have to be doing it
now you have to be learning with an
obsession you have to understand that
ideas an equal ideas out and that you
have to chase that knowledge down that
it is a relentless pursuit and that like
you would build an armada like you would
create a stock pile of weapons you must
create a stockpile of knowledge you must
learn and learn and learn and you must
hold yourself accountable every day
defending those seeds to getting better
to learning more to understanding things
more broadly when you do
nothing that won't be unlocked to you
that's what I want you guys to
understand it doesn't matter where you
are
no matter where you started your
circumstances the money the people that
you know none of it matters what matters
is how much you're willing to learn how
good are you willing to get how much
knowledge are you willing to soak in
because that will become your weapon
that will be how you rise up and that
would be the thing that will protect you
when you need it most
[Music]
yo
so if you want to do something
incredible tomorrow learn today as
Michelangelo said if people knew how
hard I work to achieve my mastery it
wouldn't seem so wonderful after all and
that's the thing about getting great
that's the thing about being an artist
of such caliber that you're remembered
for hundreds of years after your death
it is back-breaking work
it is a blinding amount of effort it
isn't about natural talent that myth
that some people are born with something
that we celebrate so much is just that a
myth you're born a lump of flesh you
can't hold your own head of you may have
predispositions but that is a long way
from actually crafting your ability and
to the point where it looks like magic
and that's the beauty of artistry isn't
it
that it's so unbelievable that you're
more willing to believe that it was God
given that they were anointed with it
and that they just worked their ass off
but the truth is every one of the
Great's no matter how much natural
talent they were born with they're
remembered because they worked they were
remembered because they did so much work
because in that world
is hardship in that work is difficulty
in that work is unbearable adversity but
it's in that adversity that the magic
happens and as Victor Hugo said
adversity makes men prosperity makes
monsters so I know right now you wish
you've been born with some talent you
wish that all those dreams that you had
they were yours for the taking that you
didn't have to put blood sweat and tears
into it that somebody would hand you at
least something in the beginning that
they would give you some starts a spark
that's where the monsters created if you
really want to get hard if you really
want to get tough if you want to get
great if you want to be unfuckin
touchable because no one can bend or
break your vision of yourself
then you have to suffer that's the way
of the world and as Florence Nightingale
said I attribute my success
to this I never gave or took any excuse
and that's the secret at the end of the
day if you know what you want it's only
a question of whether you're willing to
pay the price to get there so ask
yourself are you willing to pay the
price
[Music]
as Ralph Waldo Emerson said do not go
where the path may lead go instead where
there is no path and leave a trail it's
never going to make sense it's never
going to be obvious you're never going
to walk out your door and see the
obvious way that you want to go and if
you do it's a trap if you do go down the
path that's already laid for you it's
going to take you to all the
destinations that are already known it's
going to take you to all of the places
that instinct drove the people before
you but if you want to go somewhere
unique if you want to go somewhere that
only you would go if you want to create
something new and really live a life
that was meant for you because it's
literally crafted by you you have to
take the first steps on faith and as
Rumi said as you start to walk out on
the way the way appears so as you're
looking at the choices that are before
you where you've got a path that's well
trodden you've got a path that literally
is invisible and won't become something
until you step on it you have to
understand that that's what this life is
meant to be and that the only
frustration that you will look back on
with tremendous regret is knowing that
you did what was easy even though it
wasn't you there's some mechanism inside
of us there's some thing that wants us
to walk a path that's never been walked
before and the thing that makes it so
hard is right now inside of you is a
desperate desire for that to be easy but
it's not going to be easy it's going to
be hard you're going to fail you're
gonna stumble you're gonna fall on your
face and thank God because as Mohammed
Ali said only
man who knows what it's like to be
defeated can reach down to the bottom of
his soul and come up with the extra
ounce of power it takes to win when the
match is even so what you have to ask
yourself is what do you want do you want
it to be easy do you want the path to be
well won or do you want the path to be
yours do you want to know that inside of
you is something that you can reach into
and grab and that will be there at the
moment that you most need it do you want
to know that you're that type of person
because if you do you have to be willing
to walk the path that doesn't exist you
have to be willing to tread through the
brambles you have to be willing to fall
because it is in that process of failure
and pain and agony and suffering that
you will become that's the process that
will make you you that's the process
that will shape you
it's the suffering that gives you the
serves to draw when you leave the most
so when you ask for safety when you ask
for ease know that you're saying a
prayer for weakness and when you take
the hard way know that you're forging
yourself when you make those demands
know that you're building a reserve tank
that will be there at the moment when
you need it when you walk the path that
only you can walk know that you're
living the life that you were meant to
live and that my friends is how you
become the you worth becoming
[Music]
all right listen and listen well because
no truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you are going to have
to learn more than anyone has ever
learned you can have to push yourself
harder than anyone has ever asked you to
push yourself before you're gonna go way
beyond your breaking point you're gonna
run until you vomit you're gonna study
until you fall asleep you're going to
push and push and push and then you're
going to push some [__] more and when
you hit the limit you're gonna push
again beyond that you're gonna force
yourself into an adaptation response and
why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are gonna be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things that I'm saying somebody right
now is doing the work of
failing and getting up and getting
better and pushing themselves and
triggering that glorious adaptation
response that makes humans the apex
predator someone right now they're
putting in that work and if you don't
the future is gonna belong to them and
as Martin Luther King jr. said you can't
fly than one if you can't run then walk
if you can't walk then crawl but
whatever you do you have to keep moving
forward it's not okay to make excuses
it's not gonna slow people down it's not
okay to ask the world to stop so that
you can step out front it's not okay to
expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness you've got to develop your
skill set you've got to take what you
have now and if that's crawling then
[__] crawl but you drag yourself ever
forward to a vision of yourself
that is so clear and so specific that
nothing could knock you off your path
you my friends know exactly where you're
going you're willing to pay whatever
price it takes to get there and no
matter what anybody says no matter how
many [__] hecklers come for you no
matter how many people try to flow dirt
on you try to stop you try to knock you
down no matter how many [__] people
come for you at night while you sleep
you will rise and you will keep pushing
forward and you would get better every
day and no matter how many times people
chop at you knock you down knock you off
the pathways and get back on you will
crawl so you can walk you will walk till
you run and then you will run until you
fly and that my friends is the only path
forward so if you want a [__] future
that makes you happy
if you want a world that you're excited
about get your ass out there and earn it
as Thomas Edison said our greatest
weakness lies in giving up the most
certain way to succeed is to always try
one more time I know they're gonna be a
million times in your life where you
want to give up where you absolutely
ache with the desire to quit where
nothing sits inside of your gut other
than the certainty that you are going to
fail that you are not good enough to
push forward but that is to
fundamentally misunderstand the nature
of a failure the nature of a failure is
not to tell you who you are the nature
of a failure is to tell you a way that
didn't work it's to inform it's to
educate you it's to test you it's to be
a gut check to find out if you believe
in yourself enough to push forward even
when the world seems to be telling you
not to and as Brian Tracy said a
be impossible in order to improve your
work think about that for a second
attempt the impossible just to get
better to try the things that you know
are going to fail things that the world
is going to tell you simply cannot be
but even if it violates the laws of
physics if there's something in that
attempt that you're going to learn you
owe it to yourself you have a [__]
moral obligation to try because all of
the people that will lie in your wake
are the people that didn't try simply
because they didn't believe that they
could do it you have to be willing to
look at the world you have to be willing
to see things that you yourself think
are impossible and try because in that
you will stretch yourself you have to be
willing to look inward at the state of
your current skill set and say I'm going
to play outside of that I'm not going to
play words say I'm going to play where
it hurts I'm going to play where I feel
clumsy I'm going to play only in the
areas that make me feel stupid because
in that I know that the way that the
brain responds is to adaptation but I
have to stress myself
you can't ever lose sight of that the
only way that the human animal adapts is
through stress you have to be willing to
break things no too
so if you want to push the boundaries if
you want to see just how far you can go
if you want to succeed at the highest
level if you want to play on a global
scale you have got to be willing to try
the impossible because right now the
things that you need to do are
impossible for you but they won't remain
that way forever and as Aristotle said
pleasure in the job puts perfection in
the work this doesn't have to be a tale
of always being terrified everybody
myself included screaming at you telling
you that you need to go do something
great the part they're leaving out is
why the [__] should you care
you should character this is the
greatest joy you should only listen to
this if it's leading you down a path
that makes you feel more alive and
that's the point the point is to get in
touch with something that makes you feel
great but not to let yourself starve or
be stopped by a fear that you'll fail by
a fear that it can't be done
have fun have the guts to enjoy yourself
have the guts to go out and attempt
something audacious and terrifying
knowing that all along if you're doing
it right you're gonna have a good time
so all of this going balls out trying to
prove something to yourself trying to do
something amazing never lose sight that
it's to build a better life never lose
sight of the fact that you're doing it
to create the person that you want to be
never lose sight of the fact that
to be fun as JBS Haldane said the world
Shall Perish not for a lack of wonders
but for a lack of wonder everything
around you is incredible if you're
willing to look at it that way
everything around you can be taken for
granted if that's your perspective but
it really is about the frame that you
choose to put around things I mean
simply being alive is already insane the
odds are so stacked against you not only
just being a human but being a human at
this moment in time this moment in time
will breakthroughs in technology are
happening at at an unprecedented rate
where breakthroughs in medical science
are happening at an unprecedented rate
where our ability to connect with people
to empathize with people all the way
around the globe all of the changes that
have happened in technology and telecom
and connectivity health everything we're
living in the most miraculous time ever
but you have to look at it that way and
as Joseph Campbell said life is a
wonderful wonderful opera except that it
hurts so the question is do you see it
is the beautiful opera or do you just
pay attention to the pain and at the end
of the day you're gonna get what you
focus on they're both true this is both
the most amazing time that's ever
happened ever in recorded history and
yet real things that are terrifying are
also happening but where you put your
energy where you put your attention
where you put your focus is going to
determine what you see and that is the
most fascinating and the most important
thing you have to understand about the
way that your mind works you get when
you focus on if you focus on the things
that are bad they will become real they
will become exaggerated they will begin
to monopolize your thoughts you'll see
them everywhere it's called the
reticular activating system your mind is
literally designed to pay attention to
the things that you notice once you
notice a certain car you see it
everywhere once you notice a certain
you see it everywhere once you hear a
certain name for the first time suddenly
realized that that name has been all
around you this entire time but now that
you're focusing on it now that you're
looking for it it is everywhere
so whatever you look for it's gonna be
everywhere if you look for the negative
will be there but if you look for the
positive it will overwhelm you and as
Joseph canva said people say what we're
all seeking as a meaningful life but I
don't think that's what we're really
seeking I think what we're seeking is
the experience of truly being alive and
that's it that's the juice figuring out
that thing that makes you come alive
it isn't keeping up with the Joneses it
isn't how much you're getting paid it
isn't anything other than for you
something very specific it would be
different for everyone but for you find
that thing that makes you come alive
focus on think about it put your time
and attention there shift away from
seeing the pain in the Opera and instead
seeing the wonderment and at all
seeing the glory that is just everything
around you the opportunities the fact
that you're alive once you can see that
those basic things that you take for
granted that you can breathe in through
the nose and out through the mouth all
of that stuff once you start seeing how
miraculous it really is once you start
seeing how we're connected to each other
once you understand that the name of the
game isn't wealth
it isn't fame it isn't ambition or
success it's neuro chemistry it's
feeling a certain way it's finding
fulfillment in your life once you
realize that you'll understand this is a
game of attention and you entirely
control what you focus on so choose very
wisely my friends because your life will
literally become the summation of the
things that you look at
[Music]
you